I am excited to apply for the trainee opportunity at VTT that I found on LinkedIn, as it aligns with and can be helpful for my career plan of becoming a technical writer. When I saw the blog about working as a research trainee in VTT's Printed Materials System team, I found the author's experience of researching and writing about technological content extremely appealing, because what I am currently looking for in an internship is exactly the chance to learn to write about technical topics. I believe my skills in writing, programming, market research and project management provide a significant advantage for creating a successful launch. 

I am currently a first-year post-graduate student in Linguistic Data Sciences at University of Eastern Finland, before pursuing a deeper study in data sciences here in Finland, I completed a Master's degree in English-Chinese translation in China (2019-2022), from a university that has a leading place in translation and language studies. Since 2019, as a freelance translator, I have developed three years of experience in writing, and translation, and learned a lot about project management from my previous internships. Last year, I worked full-time in an intelligence research company. Communicating with experts from the technological and scientific industry has deepened my interest in getting back into writing for a more targeted audience. 

I am particularly drawn to VTT's ability to translate scientific breakthroughs into practical solutions. This aligns perfectly with my passion for driving meaningful change and making a tangible impact in my work.  

Even though I am just in the first year of my master's programme, I am going to complete half of the academic credits by Spring 2024, and will have enough time and focus for this traineeship. Thank you for your time and consideration. I will be thrilled for the opportunity to kick off my career as a technical writer from VTT's traineeship. 