# Strategies for Restoring Readers’ Participation in Translation of Detective Novels
## A Case Study of the English-Chinese Translation of *The Daughter of Time* 

As a subgenre of popular literature, a detective novel describes the story of a detective with excellent reasoning ability who collects evidence, solves a big mystery and punishes the culprit. When Western detective novels were first introduced into China, translators would change the narrative sequence and perspective of the original texts to fit the traditional Chinese literary paradigm of the time. However, with the development of cross-cultural exchanges, Western culture and mindset have become less exotic and strange to today’s Chinese readers, as a result, the said translation strategy is no longer applicable. An up-to-date translator needs to be faithful to the original text, restore the narrative style and characteristics of the original work, and enhance the reading experience for Chinese readers. 

Readers’ participation is an important factor for the author of a detective novel to engage the readers’ attention, it means the author has to find a way to invite readers to participate in the deduction process and to race the detective’s mind. However, a good detective novel is not a mere IQ test, but goes further and resonates with readers beyond the mystery-solving. Therefore, a translator needs to reproduce the readers’ participation in order to restore the literary value and subtle connotation of the original work. 

In light of this, readers’ participation in detective novels falls into two categories: one is to give readers the same clues and background knowledge as the detective, holding an “IQ test” to find out “who did it”; the other is to step over the case-solving process, engage readers in the world beyond, such as the characters’ fate and evolution, social issues brought out by the mystery, and the reflective thinking ensued.

This paper is a case study of the English-Chinese translation of *The Daughter of Time*. The novel tells the story of a detective named Grant, who researched and overthrew the long-standing historical mystery: King Richard III’s murder of the Princes in the Tower. To make the mystery-solving more dramatic and unusual, detective Grant completed all his research and deduction while he broke his leg and was confined to a hospital bed. *The Daughter of Time* is one of the representative works of the Scottish author Josephine Tey, whose full-blown writing style has had a breakthrough to the traditional paradigm of detective novels: less reader-centered, the plot doesn’t go as per readers’ expectation. Instead of carrying out a conventional “reader-detective intelligence contest”, Tey often excludes her readers from the mystery-solving contest, making them watch the detective’s reasoning from the sidelines. Nevertheless, with detailed psychological description and characterization, Tey is very good at intriguing her readers, letting them follow the psychological evolution of the detective and participate in reflective thinking beyond mystery-solving. 

In order to help Chinese readers appreciate the charm of the original work, a translator needs to restore the two types of readers’ participation listed above, enabling Chinese readers to enjoy the reading experience as the native readers of the original work, together with its literary subtlety and ideological connotation. By analyzing and comparing the initial edition of translation, the reviewer’s draft, and the final draft of *The Daughter of Time*, this paper summarizes the difficulties in restoring the readers’ participation, and proposes targeted strategies to solve them. 

Based on the analysis of the textual characteristics of this novel, the difficulties can be concluded as: a. retaining the parts that are difficult for readers to participate, b. restoring what attracts readers to the original work, and c. reducing target readers’ inconvenience in reading. The initial edition omitted or incorrectly analyzed the purpose and style of the original text, put information above anything else, and did not consider the cultural differences between the source and target languages that might confuse Chinese readers, which tremendously affected the reading experience of target readers. 

In response to these mistakes, first of all, translators need to analyze the purpose of the writer accurately and meticulously, not to disrupt the narrative sequence of the original work, and to analyze the writing style of the original text before omitting or adding any information. Even if some information seems irrelevant to the main story, there could be unrevealed considerations behind it. Secondly, translators should restore the characteristics of the characters, analyze their personalities and roles in the story before deciding whether direct quotations can be converted into indirect ones, or whether information can be reduced or simplified. Finally, translators’ annotation should be able to effectively complement the translated text, and add the speakers and contextual clues in places that may cause misunderstanding to relieve the possible burden in the reading experience for target readers. 

Deriving all translation cases analyzed and discussed from the novel *The Daughter of Time*, this paper provides more analytical examples for the study of English-Chinese translation of detective novels. In addition, readers’ participation is a common issue that must be taken seriously in many genres of literature, and the translation strategies proposed in this paper can also be referred to for translators who encounter similar problems in the future.