# A Research on China's Legislation of Money Laundering and the Difficulties of Its Incrimination 

China's anti-money laundering legislation has evolved and developed for decades, yielding significant successes. However, in contrast to nations that have actively combated this crime since the turn of the century, there are still shortcomings that are difficult to overlook. 

When comparing China's legislation development to its incrimination of money laundering, a striking situation calls for attention: over the years, only a small amount of cases have resulted in convictions for money laundering. This demonstrates some hazy lines between the regulation and implementation of money laundering. 

This paper intends to analyze the legislation on money laundering in Japan and the United States, two representatives of Civil Law and Common Law, before discussing the limitations of China's legislation and bringing forward suggestions for improvement. 

In the following chapters, I will first introduce the value and roadblocks of this research. Then, I will go over the fundamentals of the legislation on money laundering, which includes money laundering's definition, the value of its incrimination, and its historical development in China. In the third and fourth chapters, I will compare the status quo of money laundering legislation under Common Law and Civil Law, before analyzing the limitations of China's legislation. Finally, four strategies for enhancing and improving the incrimination of money laundering will be suggested: a. expand the scope of predicate crime; b. broaden the scope of subject to liability; c. clear the connotation of indirect intention and "should know"; d. build a stronger connection with international anti-money laundering legislation.